---
template: blog-post
title: "Positive Digitalization within Latin America "
slug: /digitalization-movement
date: 2023-03-07 01:27
description: How can the region benefit from the digitalization movement that
  spans all age groups, including students within the education system
featuredImage: /assets/rodion-kutsaiev-0vgg7cqtwco-unsplash.jpg
---
Students over the last couple of years have been provided with devices for their educational use while being at home, yet the impact this has is shown to be worthy of how more engaging they are with their education. In general, digitalization is hopeful in bringing in the possibility of new social opportunities in the region after sustaining the progress it has established in promoting the movement in the past two decades.

To learn more about the movement and its impact on Latin America, let's first glance at how it impacts students, who are the future for the majority of families living in the region. Students across the region are accessing ICT (Information and Communication Technology) at younger ages because of schools influencing the need for digital tech to be introduced to them for their learning and exploration of new concepts. In particular, the rapid digitalization seen over the last decade, it's influenced how students are learning, doing homework, interacting with classmates, and spending leisure time.

Even from a young age, the trend of children exposed to technology has increased due to at what age they accessed a technological device for the first time. This exposure to technological devices demonstrates an increase in Internet usage at schools doubling in numbers between 2012 to 2018 for 15-year-old students and their Internet usage outside of school also jumped from 1 and a half hours to 3 hours or 3 and a half hours for weekdays and weekends alone. These factors, though, depend on the country that children come from that has made accessing technology accessible for them like Chile and Uruguay for example. These countries in 2018 reported that 75% of 15-year-olds accessed technology for the first time in comparison to 50% of the same age group but in Mexico and the Dominican Republic. Yet, when compared to other OECD countries, other countries' statistics showed only less than 1% of 15-year-olds hadn't used a device, meaning that the majority are already familiar with tech, contrary to Latin America and the Caribbean where the statistic is more than 2%. 

Many factors contribute to why Latin America and the Caribbean face this situation, most of them to be covered more in the other blogs of the website. To touch briefly upon them, most of these factors consist of physical barriers, proper tech-based training, allocating resources to all areas of a country to maintain educational equity, and much more. 

What's most important though, is that in an era of digitalization that's going on in Latin America, internet connectivity should be a priority for students for their building learning experience. To be able to learn at home and work on online assignments to better grasp concepts on their own, it's another format in how online learning demonstrates its positives in educational success.

Online learning provides the beneficial opportunity for students to have access to educational channels via video-hosting platforms, government-sponsored learning channels available via their own appropriate website or channel (like PBS Kids in the U.S.), and the availability to opt-in with mobile learning. Mobile learning makes it reliable for low-income and rural areas students to learn via mobile devices that are easy to set up with appropriate programs and cheaper for Internet access. Educational channels spread broadcasts of virtual classes that cover a wide range of topics that are later published videos for individual viewing and can be shared with other classmates and educators as resource use.