---
template: blog-post
title: Projects and Apps Enhancing Aspirations of Students
slug: /hands-on-opportunities
date: 2023-04-17 21:12
description: Getting students to be involved in creating projects and apps
  creates a fortifying environment of learning and curiosity for technology
featuredImage: /assets/pexels-flex-point-security-12473878.jpg
---
Particular countries across Latin America have assisted in establishing events for students to work on projects and apps related to tech. These special events have made students come together to collaborate with one another in order to establish an interest in technology and its innovations. 

Particularly in Southern America, countries like Argentina and Chile have been hosts for these kinds of events to push the education technology movement into their institutions where students can learn and interact with the wonders of technology. To start with Argentina first, they're considered the country to have the longest experience of having educational policies linked to technology through different content programs and just in 2018, passed federal regulations to enhance digital education, programming, and robotics. An example of how this regulation influenced tech events would be at a particular high school in Cordoba, Argentina, where a project was in development for a chatbot program designed by students. Chatbot's purpose is to promote and introduce computer science concepts that enhance intellectual and critical thinking skills due to programming the bot to hold conversations between a human and a bot in multiple speaking languages. This project also tested to see engagement between male and female students who wanted to volunteer with collaborating and testing out Chatbot, along with seeing who was interested in learning about computer science. The results were that there were more female students engaged with the testing of Chatbot and wanting to know more about computer science as a topic. 

Though, computer science graduates from Argentinian universities are short in numbers due to the lack of early education about computer science in schools, which hasn't been pushed forward enough nor does it focus on computer science content that makes student practice being technological creators. Plus, the fact that companies hiring computer science graduates are double the amount of actual computer science graduates from these institutions shows where career exploration should be focused a bit more on. With so, the need for the inclusion of computer science classes starting at primary or secondary schools gains confidence for students to have the resources necessary in making decisions about their educational future, following with how to include them in their technological world. 

Good news actually, is that Argentina's Ministry of Education created a technological program called "Aprender Conectados" for 9-13-year-old students that integrates educational and technological innovation and increases digital literacy skills through learning communities. These learning communities can consist of educational forums or websites that provide insight into technology. With this program, it gives an opportunity for the kids to experience networked learning, where they can work with one another on developing their skills through Scratch, web programming, and Python to name a few particular web development topics. The goal of these programs that are created or sponsored by the Ministries of Education, like Argentina's, is to personalize students' learning through educational technology and online resources at their disposal. From the teacher's end, their aim would be to implement other manners of supporting instruction through the use of tech at all educational levels. 

For Chile's story, they're also a country that's significantly advanced in education due to its students receiving the highest scores on reading, math, and science exams. Even though students perform very well on standardized exams in charge by the OECD, their performance is still well below the OECD average. Thus, researchers ask if the dynamic use of computer technology could make up for increasing student performance on exams.

Many positive outcomes have been drawn out from implementing computer labs within schools, such as that in the capital of Chile, Santiago, for example. Within the poorer areas of Santiago, 11 public elementary schools set up computer labs for 4th graders to have twice-weekly lab sessions to study math through online programs. Even with the basic use of computer labs at the disposal of students, it can make a difference in their performance on standardized exams, but also let educators explore online programs to enhance students' learning in more exhilarating ways. An online program that became popular with these students is called Espiral Magico, or Spiral Magic in English. Espiral Magico is a math board game that got students engaged in tackling math problems through group competitions and bonding with each other over the game because of the excitement they felt. What made the game even more thrilling was the setting the students were placed in, which was at computer stations with all screens synchronized with one another and with the screens of the other elementary schools, as it was a school-wide competition. An independent teacher separate from the school's staff commentates on the student's progress just like if it was a soccer match, through live video that's broadcast on the whiteboard of each classroom and students manage to see updated rankings of their school's progress too. This provided commentary makes the student participating in the competition rely on the unity of one another and help each other out in solving the math problems presented, influencing their improvement of learning.

These scenarios are just a fraction of what kind of flourishing outcomes there can be when students are involved more in these events that promote technology's capabilities of making them engaged and connected. It highlights how when education systems put importance on enhancing students' education through technology, its students can thrive more in having more options of how they can learn subjects in influential ways.