---
template: blog-post
title: Government Support for Technological Advance
slug: /government-support
date: 2023-03-21 20:57
description: "Governments are the backbone in providing resources & funding to
  education systems to provide a positive approach for the future of both
  students, teachers, and administrators "
featuredImage: /assets/esau-gonzalez-bqefbdsc4ko-unsplash.jpg
---
Government funding is a huge priority when it comes to the educational system of each country and there has been an instance of some countries prioritizing this funding more than others. In general, if the education budget in Latin America were to increase, then many teachers would consider spending on high-quality professional development as it's of high importance. This also includes that in Latin American countries, accessibility of offering professional development programs should be a big focus for the policy intervention, or national mandate, of each country in the region. 

Where does this thinking come from you may ask? First and foremost, most teachers are still accustomed to being trained or taught how to do lectures and require students to do note-taking during lectures, basically a typical old-fashioned school setting that hasn't changed at all. There are also other factors as to why teachers aren't "experts" in tech because of the lack of national programs that train teachers about tech and its programs. This is understanding that this training only covers the basis of tech and resources for Internet connectivity and technical support. 

Now, going back to what priorities each government should have, it's important to focus on regional needs. Different countries have different socio, political, cultural, and educational needs so it's critical for policymakers along with educational leaders to research the needs of learners throughout the area for addressing them. This would gain support from the government implementing advocacy for the future learners of their respective countries and move forward from the concept stage to the implementation stage of having national programs.

That was one of several recommendations that Latin American governments can follow that can change how their focus is on assisting their education systems, but many more exist as well. Setting long-term goals and plans of how educational technology will affect educational systems would be helpful for policymakers and educators to determine anticipated technological issues plus support for these issues, align educational tech with school curriculums, connections with new partnerships, and educational outcomes of the process. Integrating professional development is a big priority in enforcing ICT (Information and Communication Technology) training for teachers, including the navigation of networked learning at a macro and micro level. This gives policymakers and educators the continuation of moving forward with reforms that target ICT-integrated knowledge and skills at educational institutions. 

On the other hand, strategies for minimizing expensive tech costs for students are based upon the expectation that they're able to access networked learning that's affordable and long-term based on the inter-sectoral cooperation alliance's agreement. What is this inter-sectoral cooperation alliance that I speak of? It's the inclusion of academic institutions, governments, non-profit organizations, and for-profit organizations that work together to implement networked learning initiatives that have long sustainability to them. They also work on allowing networked learning projects to rise up in their stages of exploration to research to implementation and then end at maintenance.